README.md, before:

# Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps - Cisco ASA FirePOWER Log Collector

This repository provides a complete guide for deploying Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps (MDCA) log collector to ingest Cisco ASA FirePOWER syslog data on Azure Ubuntu VMs.

## Prerequisites

- Azure subscription with VM deployment permissions
- Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps license
- Cisco ASA FirePOWER appliance configured for syslog
- SSH access to Ubuntu VM
- Basic knowledge of Linux, Containerization, Bash, and Syslog

## Architecture Overview

The solution consists of:
- Azure Ubuntu VM running Docker
- MDCA log collector container listening on UDP 514
- Cisco ASA FirePOWER sending syslog to collector
- Automated log processing and upload to MDCA portal

## Quick Start

### 1. Azure VM Setup

Deploy an Ubuntu 24.04+ VM in Azure with the following specifications:
- **Size**: Standard_D2s (minimum)
- **Storage**: 128GB Premium SSD
- **Network**: Allow inbound UDP 514 and SSH 22
- **Public IP**: Required for syslog ingestion
- **Proxy**: If required
- **SSL Certs**: If required

### 2. Network Security Group Configuration

Configure NSG rules:
```bash
# Get your public IP
curl -s https://ipv4.icanhazip.com

# Configure NSG to allow:
# - SSH (22/tcp) from your IP
# - Syslog (514/udp) for log collector network appliance
```

### 1. Verify VM Access

```bash
# Use the SSH Key that you downloaded from Azure
ssh -i C:/Users/User/.ssh/mdca-demo-vm_key.pem lorenzoadm@<VM_PUBLIC_IP>
```

### 2. Docker Installation

Connect to your VM and install Docker:
```bash
# Download Docker installation script
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh

# Install Docker
sh get-docker.sh

# Add current user to docker group (optional)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

### 3. MDCA Log Collector Deployment

Deploy the log collector container:
AUTH_TOKEN: The value provided via (echo 918285354a40f0ceda695e162befd26b65bde8d0e8de5b0f80a63a1c254e65ca) from MDCA Setup / Data Connector
PUBLIC_IP: This is the VM's Private IP that you used when setting up the MDCA Log Collector (e.g. 10.0.0.4)

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name cisco_asa_fp_logcollector \
  --privileged \
  -p 514:514/udp \
  -e "PUBLIC_IP='10.0.0.4'" \
  -e "PROXY=" \
  -e "SYSLOG=true" \
  -e "CONSOLE=<YOUR_MDCA_TENANT>.portal.cloudappsecurity.com" \
  -e "COLLECTOR=cisco_asa_fp_logcollector" \
  --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN \
  --cap-add=SYSLOG \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  mcr.microsoft.com/mcas/logcollector \
  /bin/bash -c 'echo "<AUTH_TOKEN>" | /etc/adallom/scripts/starter'
```

**Required Parameters:**
- `<YOUR_VM_PRIVATE_IP>`: Azure VM's private IP address
- `<YOUR_MDCA_TENANT>`: Your MDCA tenant identifier
- `<YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN>`: Authentication token from MDCA portal

### 4. Verification

Check deployment status:
```bash
# View container logs
docker logs cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Access container shell to verify log events are finding their way
# in (SYSLOG 514:TCP) and out (HTTPS 443:TLS 1.2)
docker exec -it cisco_asa_fp_logcollector bash

# Check syslog message as events are ingested
# The MDCA Container only processes messages the messages file is >40KB
cd /var/adallom/syslog/514
ls -lah messages
```

## Configuration Details

### MDCA Portal Setup

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **MDCA** → **Cloud Discovery** → **Automatic Log Upload** → **Data Sources & Log Collectors**
2. Click **Add Data Sources**
3. Configure the Data Source
4. Click **Add Log Collector**
5. Configure the Log Collector:
   - **Name**: `CISCO-ASA-FP`
   - **Source**: `Cisco ASA FirePOWER`
   - **Receiver type**: `Syslog | 514 UDP`
6. Copy the generated authentication token

### Cisco ASA FirePOWER Configuration / Network Appliance

Configure syslog forwarding to your Azure VM:
```
logging host <AZURE_VM_PUBLIC_IP> 
logging trap informational
logging facility 16
```

### VS Code Remote Development

For easier management, use VS Code with Remote-SSH extension:

1. **Install Extension**: [Remote - SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)

2. **SSH Config** (`~/.ssh/config`):
```
Host azure-mdca-vm
    HostName <YOUR_VM_PUBLIC_IP>
    User azureuser
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/<YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY>.pem
    IdentitiesOnly yes
    StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

3. **Connect**: `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "Remote-SSH: Connect to Host"

<img width="1373" height="943" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b95bb089-1dd5-46ce-8ffe-69e6d5e6eede" />

## Testing and Validation

### Test Script Usage on your Azure Linux VM (Ubuntu 24.04 LTS)

Use the included test script to simulate syslog traffic:

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x mdca_send_msgs.sh

# Run test
./mdca_send_msgs.sh
```
<img width="1372" height="937" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9726581b-7fd1-4994-aec5-aa4552e3a41b" />

The script sends sample Cisco ASA FirePOWER logs to the collector for testing.

### Monitoring Log Ingestion

Monitor the collection process:
```bash
# Watch message file growth
watch -n 5 'ls -lah /var/adallom/syslog/514/messages'

# View real-time logs
tail -f /var/adallom/syslog/514/messages
```
**Note**: Files rotate and upload to MDCA when they exceed 40KB.

<img width="1372" height="934" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4acfbf5f-2688-42ff-a30f-cc65a4ca1d24" />

### MDCA Portal Verification

1. Navigate to **Data sources** tab
2. Verify collector shows **Connected** status
   <img width="1104" height="456" alt="image (1)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39657554-c60f-4a34-889c-5363f83e54e0" />

4. Check **Last data received** timestamp
5. Monitor **Uploaded logs** count
   <img width="1140" height="431" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cf7898f8-205d-4749-94b6-534bb29a941b" />

   <img width="1441" height="906" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3d65498-b593-4811-b367-f9e2ce16d668" />

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Container won't start:**
```bash
# Check container status
docker ps -a

# View detailed logs
docker logs cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Remove and recreate
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector
```

**No syslog data received:**
```bash
# Test network connectivity
nc -u -l 514

# Check iptables/firewall
sudo iptables -L

# Verify NSG rules in Azure portal
```

**Authentication issues:**
- Verify auth token is current (tokens expire)
- Check MDCA tenant URL format
- Ensure collector name matches portal configuration

### Container Management

**Stop and remove container:**
```bash
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector
```

**Update collector:**
```bash
# Remove old container
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Pull latest image
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/mcas/logcollector

# Redeploy with same command
```

## File Structure

```
repository/
├── README.md                      # This guide
├── mdca_send_msgs.sh             # Test script for sending sample logs
├── cisco_asa_fp_c_ai2k.log       # Sample Cisco ASA FirePOWER logs
└── deployment/
    ├── docker-compose.yml        # Alternative deployment method
    └── azure-deploy.json         # ARM template for Azure deployment
```

## References

- [MDCA Docker Ubuntu Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-cloud-apps/discovery-docker-ubuntu-azure?tabs=ubuntu)
- [Docker Installation Guide](https://github.com/docker/docker-install)
- [VS Code Remote-SSH Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)
- [Cisco ASA Syslog Configuration](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/security/asa-5500-x-series-next-generation-firewalls/118046-configure-asa-00.html)

## Support

For issues related to:
- **MDCA**: Microsoft Support Portal
- **Azure**: Azure Support
- **Cisco ASA**: Cisco TAC
- **This Repository**: Open an issue on GitHub

---

**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: September 2025  
**Compatibility**: Ubuntu 20.04+, Docker 20.10+, MDCA Current Version

Commit message:

Revise README for broader log collector usage
Updated the README to clarify that the log collector can ingest syslog data from any network appliance, not just Cisco ASA FirePOWER.

README.md, after:

# Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps - Cisco ASA FirePOWER Log Collector

This repository provides a basic guide for deploying Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps (MDCA) Log Collector to ingest Cisco ASA FirePOWER or ANY network appliance via SYSLOG 514:UDP via an Azure Ubuntu VM.

## Prerequisites

- Azure subscription with VM deployment permissions
- Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps license
- Cisco ASA FirePOWER appliance configured for syslog
- SSH access to Ubuntu VM
- Basic knowledge of Linux, Containerization, Bash, and Syslog

## Architecture Overview

The solution consists of:
- Azure Ubuntu VM running Docker
- MDCA log collector container listening on UDP 514
- Cisco ASA FirePOWER sending syslog to collector
- Automated log processing and upload to MDCA portal

## Quick Start

### 1. Azure VM Setup

Deploy an Ubuntu 24.04+ VM in Azure with the following specifications:
- **Size**: Standard_D2s (minimum)
- **Storage**: 128GB Premium SSD
- **Network**: Allow inbound UDP 514 and SSH 22
- **Public IP**: Required for syslog ingestion
- **Proxy**: If required
- **SSL Certs**: If required

### 2. Network Security Group Configuration

Configure NSG rules:
```bash
# Get your public IP
curl -s https://ipv4.icanhazip.com

# Configure NSG to allow:
# - SSH (22/tcp) from your IP
# - Syslog (514/udp) for log collector network appliance
```

### 1. Verify VM Access

```bash
# Use the SSH Key that you downloaded from Azure
ssh -i C:/Users/User/.ssh/mdca-demo-vm_key.pem lorenzoadm@<VM_PUBLIC_IP>
```

### 2. Docker Installation

Connect to your VM and install Docker:
```bash
# Download Docker installation script
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh

# Install Docker
sh get-docker.sh

# Add current user to docker group (optional)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

### 3. MDCA Log Collector Deployment

Deploy the log collector container:
AUTH_TOKEN: The value provided via (echo 918285354a40f0ceda695e162befd26b65bde8d0e8de5b0f80a63a1c254e65ca) from MDCA Setup / Data Connector
PUBLIC_IP: This is the VM's Private IP that you used when setting up the MDCA Log Collector (e.g. 10.0.0.4)

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name cisco_asa_fp_logcollector \
  --privileged \
  -p 514:514/udp \
  -e "PUBLIC_IP='10.0.0.4'" \
  -e "PROXY=" \
  -e "SYSLOG=true" \
  -e "CONSOLE=<YOUR_MDCA_TENANT>.portal.cloudappsecurity.com" \
  -e "COLLECTOR=cisco_asa_fp_logcollector" \
  --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN \
  --cap-add=SYSLOG \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  mcr.microsoft.com/mcas/logcollector \
  /bin/bash -c 'echo "<AUTH_TOKEN>" | /etc/adallom/scripts/starter'
```

**Required Parameters:**
- `<YOUR_VM_PRIVATE_IP>`: Azure VM's private IP address
- `<YOUR_MDCA_TENANT>`: Your MDCA tenant identifier
- `<YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN>`: Authentication token from MDCA portal

### 4. Verification

Check deployment status:
```bash
# View container logs
docker logs cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Access container shell to verify log events are finding their way
# in (SYSLOG 514:TCP) and out (HTTPS 443:TLS 1.2)
docker exec -it cisco_asa_fp_logcollector bash

# Check syslog message as events are ingested
# The MDCA Container only processes messages the messages file is >40KB
cd /var/adallom/syslog/514
ls -lah messages
```

## Configuration Details

### MDCA Portal Setup

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **MDCA** → **Cloud Discovery** → **Automatic Log Upload** → **Data Sources & Log Collectors**
2. Click **Add Data Sources**
3. Configure the Data Source
4. Click **Add Log Collector**
5. Configure the Log Collector:
   - **Name**: `CISCO-ASA-FP`
   - **Source**: `Cisco ASA FirePOWER`
   - **Receiver type**: `Syslog | 514 UDP`
6. Copy the generated authentication token

### Cisco ASA FirePOWER Configuration / Network Appliance

Configure syslog forwarding to your Azure VM:
```
logging host <AZURE_VM_PUBLIC_IP> 
logging trap informational
logging facility 16
```

### VS Code Remote Development

For easier management, use VS Code with Remote-SSH extension:

1. **Install Extension**: [Remote - SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)

2. **SSH Config** (`~/.ssh/config`):
```
Host azure-mdca-vm
    HostName <YOUR_VM_PUBLIC_IP>
    User azureuser
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/<YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY>.pem
    IdentitiesOnly yes
    StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

3. **Connect**: `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "Remote-SSH: Connect to Host"

<img width="1373" height="943" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b95bb089-1dd5-46ce-8ffe-69e6d5e6eede" />

## Testing and Validation

### Test Script Usage on your Azure Linux VM (Ubuntu 24.04 LTS)

Use the included test script to simulate syslog traffic:

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x mdca_send_msgs.sh

# Run test
./mdca_send_msgs.sh
```
<img width="1372" height="937" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9726581b-7fd1-4994-aec5-aa4552e3a41b" />

The script sends sample Cisco ASA FirePOWER logs to the collector for testing.

### Monitoring Log Ingestion

Monitor the collection process:
```bash
# Watch message file growth
watch -n 5 'ls -lah /var/adallom/syslog/514/messages'

# View real-time logs
tail -f /var/adallom/syslog/514/messages
```
**Note**: Files rotate and upload to MDCA when they exceed 40KB.

<img width="1372" height="934" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4acfbf5f-2688-42ff-a30f-cc65a4ca1d24" />

### MDCA Portal Verification

1. Navigate to **Data sources** tab
2. Verify collector shows **Connected** status
   <img width="1104" height="456" alt="image (1)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39657554-c60f-4a34-889c-5363f83e54e0" />

4. Check **Last data received** timestamp
5. Monitor **Uploaded logs** count
   <img width="1140" height="431" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cf7898f8-205d-4749-94b6-534bb29a941b" />

   <img width="1441" height="906" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3d65498-b593-4811-b367-f9e2ce16d668" />

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Container won't start:**
```bash
# Check container status
docker ps -a

# View detailed logs
docker logs cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Remove and recreate
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector
```

**No syslog data received:**
```bash
# Test network connectivity
nc -u -l 514

# Check iptables/firewall
sudo iptables -L

# Verify NSG rules in Azure portal
```

**Authentication issues:**
- Verify auth token is current (tokens expire)
- Check MDCA tenant URL format
- Ensure collector name matches portal configuration

### Container Management

**Stop and remove container:**
```bash
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector
```

**Update collector:**
```bash
# Remove old container
docker rm -f cisco_asa_fp_logcollector

# Pull latest image
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/mcas/logcollector

# Redeploy with same command
```

## File Structure

```
repository/
├── README.md                      # This guide
├── mdca_send_msgs.sh             # Test script for sending sample logs
├── cisco_asa_fp_c_ai2k.log       # Sample Cisco ASA FirePOWER logs
└── deployment/
    ├── docker-compose.yml        # Alternative deployment method
    └── azure-deploy.json         # ARM template for Azure deployment
```

## References

- [MDCA Docker Ubuntu Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-cloud-apps/discovery-docker-ubuntu-azure?tabs=ubuntu)
- [Docker Installation Guide](https://github.com/docker/docker-install)
- [VS Code Remote-SSH Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)
- [Cisco ASA Syslog Configuration](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/security/asa-5500-x-series-next-generation-firewalls/118046-configure-asa-00.html)

## Support

For issues related to:
- **MDCA**: Microsoft Support Portal
- **Azure**: Azure Support
- **Cisco ASA**: Cisco TAC
- **This Repository**: Open an issue on GitHub

---

**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: September 2025  
**Compatibility**: Ubuntu 20.04+, Docker 20.10+, MDCA Current Version
